visualization of pie-chart widget (#103)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/platform-overview/widgets/pie-chart.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

> # Pie Chart
> 
> You can create a pie chart illustrating your catalog data divided by a specific category inside a specfic entity page [**Specific Entity Page**](../port-components/page.md#entity-page).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Pie chart

You can create a pie chart illustrating your software catalog divided by category inside a specific entity page [**Specific Entity Page**](../port-components/page.md#entity-page).
```

Reviewer: What do you mean by: "inside a specific entity page?"
How is it in an entity profile if it's a pie chart of the whole software catalog?

> You can create a pie chart illustrating data from Entities in your software catalog divided by categories and Entity properties inside a specific entity page [**Specific Entity Page**](../port-components/page.md#entity-page).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a pie chart illustrating data from Entities in your software catalog divided by categories and Entity properties inside a Specific Entity Page [**Specific Entity Page**](../port-components/page.md#entity-page).
```

## Creating visualization

> - On the top right of the page click on "Add Visualization" button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On the top right of the page click on `Add Visualization` button:
```

- Select Pie Chart

![Dropdown](../../../static/img/platform-overview/widgets/AddPieChartVisualization.png)

> - Fill out the prompted form and click save

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fill out the form and click save:
```

> - On the top right of the page click on `Add Visualization` button:
> - Select Pie Chart
> 
> ![Dropdown](../../../static/img/platform-overview/widgets/AddPieChartVisualization.png)
> 
> - Fill out the form and click save:
> 
> ![Dropdown](../../../static/img/platform-overview/widgets/AddPieChartForm.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the top right of the page click on `Add Visualization` button;
- Select Pie Chart;

![Dropdown](../../../static/img/platform-overview/widgets/AddPieChartVisualization.png)

- Fill out the form and click save.

![Dropdown](../../../static/img/platform-overview/widgets/AddPieChartForm.png)
```

## Editing visualization

> - On the top right of the pie chart widget click on the three dots icon

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On the top right of the pie chart widget click on the three dots icon;
```

> - Select your desired action (delete/edit)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Select your desired action (edit/delete).
```

![Dropdown](../../../static/img/platform-overview/widgets/EditOrDeleteWidget.png)

## Visualization properties

| Field                   | Type     | Description                                                                                                            | Default | Required |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `Title`                 | `String` | The title of the visualization                                                                                         | `null`  | `true`   |
| `Icon`                  | `String` | The icon of the visualization                                                                                          | `null`  | `false`  |
| `Description`           | `String` | A short description to describe the visualization                                                                      | `null`  | `false`  |

> | `Blueprint`             | `String` | The chart will display data about entities of the chosen blueprint that are related to this ServiceInEnv               | `null`  | `true`   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `Blueprint`             | `String` | The Blueprint to visualize the data of its Related Entities               | `null`  | `true`   |
```

| `Breakdown by property` | `String` | Group your chart by a specific property                                                                                | `null`  | `true`   |

> | `Filters`               | `Array`  | Filters to include or exclue specific data [Read more](https://docs.getport.io/tutorials/search-in-port/#search-rules) | []      | `false`  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `Filters`               | `Array`  | Filters to include or exclue specific data based on Port's [Search Rules](https://docs.getport.io/tutorials/search-in-port/#search-rules) | []      | `false`  |
```
